Title: COVID19 and India in statistics
Date: 2 July 2019
img: covid19.jpg
featured: True
lang: en
status: draft

The first official covid19 case in India was detected on 30 January 2020. A state of national lockdown to arrest the spread of covid19 was announced on 24th March 2020. However covid19 continued to spread, albeit at a slower pace that it oculd have in a big and densely populated country like India. It has been almost 5 months since the first reported case and the infection count is in lakhs and it does not seem to slow down. In this article we take a look at some ways in which to make sense
of the available data and provide insight into the pandemic. We also look at how some basic math can be used to gain insight in how fast the infection is spreading, what the future might hold and the limitations of such analyses.

## Linear vs. Logarithmici series
There are multiple ways to see how a certan quantity grows over time. There is the more common known linear progression where increments are made such that the increase is a constant amount. Such a series when graphed shows as a straight line and the slope of that line gives you the rate at which the series is incrementing by, e.g. 100 cases per day, which remains constant with time. A typical linear series is shown below:

[linear series]({filename}/images/linear.png)

If the increments are not constant but themselves incrementing, it becomes an exponential series, i.e. the increase is exponential in nature, such a series when graphed lookes like a curve with an increasing slope as shown below:

[expoenntial series]({filename}/images/expo.png)

Since the exponential series is such a staggeringly rapid increasing dataset that to get a sense of the rate we plot the y-axis (vertical axis) on a logarithmic scale which then converts the expoenntial intoa  linear series. In this case the data can be made sense of much easily. 

Lets demosntrate this with an example,

We take a linear dataset of cases increasing by a fixed amount, lets say 100 cases per day and plot it. This is what is expected:

[lineareg]({filename}/images/lineareg.png)

The x-axis gives the time in days and the y-axis the total cases, and the slope of the plot is 100cases/day, which is a  constant rate of increase, i.e. beteen any two days, the difference in cases is 100.

Now we go for an exponential series.

## Understanding the terminology

### Recovery rate

### Mortality rate

## What the data points to

## Shortcomings/Pitfalls


Data obtained from: <https://github.com/owid/covid-19-data>
